



CANADA NOT LAST.

AT VENICE.


  Lo Venice, gay with color, lights and song,
    Calls from St. Mark's with ancient voice and strange:
  I am the Witch of Cities! glide along
    My silver streets that never wear by change
  Of years: forget the years, and pain, and wrong,
  And ever sorrow reigning men among.
    Know I can soothe thee, please and marry thee
  To my illusions. Old and siren strong,
    I smile immortal, while the mortals flee
    Who whiten on to death in wooing me.


AT FLORENCE.

  Say, what more fair by Arno's bridg?gleam
    Than Florence, viewed from San Miniato's slope
  At eventide, when west along the stream
    The last of day reflects a silver hope!--
  Lo, all else softened in the twilight beam:--
  The city's mass blent in one hazy cream,
    The brown Dome 'midst it, and the Lily tower,
  And stern Old Tower more near, and hills that seem
    Afar, like clouds to fade, and hills of power
    On this side greenly dark with cypress, vine and bower.


AT ROME.

  End of desire to stray I feel would come
    Though Italy were all fair skies to me,
  Though France's fields went mad with flowery foam
    And Blanc put on a special majesty,
  Not all could match the growing thought of home
  Nor tempt to exile. Look I not on Rome--
    This ancient, modern, medi?l queen--
  Yet still sigh westward over hill and dome,
    Imperial ruin and villa's princely scene
    Lovely with pictured saints and marble gods serene.


REFLECTION.

  Rome, Florence, Venice--noble, fair and quaint,
    They reign in robes of magic round me here;
  But fading, blotted, dim, a picture faint,
    With spell more silent, only pleads a tear.
  Plead not! Thou hast my heart, O picture dim!
    I see the fields, I see the autumn hand
  Of God upon the maples! Answer Him
    With weird, translucent glories, ye that stand
  Like spirits in scarlet and in amethyst!
  I see the sun break over you: the mist
    On hills that lift from iron bases grand
    Their heads superb!--the dream, it is my native land.

WILLIAM DOUW SCHUYLER-LIGHTHALL.

