



"PICCIOLA."


  It was a Sergeant old and gray,
     Well singed and bronzed from siege and pillage,
  Went tramping in an army's wake
     Along the turnpike of the village.

  For days and nights the winding host
     Had through the little place been marching,
  And ever loud the rustics cheered,
     Till every throat was hoarse and parching.

  The Squire and Farmer, maid and dame,
     All took the sight's electric stirring,
  And hats were waved and staves were sung,
     And kerchiefs white were countless whirring.

  They only saw a gallant show
     Of heroes stalwart under banners,
  And, in the fierce heroic glow,
    'Twas theirs to yield but wild hosannas.

  The Sergeant heard the shrill hurrahs,
     Where he behind in step was keeping;
  But glancing down beside the road
     He saw a little maid sit weeping.

  "And how is this?" he gruffly said,
     A moment pausing to regard her;--
  "Why weepest thou, my little chit?"
     And then she only cried the harder.

  "And how is this, my little chit?"
    The sturdy trooper straight repeated,
  "When all the village cheers us on,
    That you, in tears, apart are seated?

  "We march two hundred thousand strong,
    And that's a sight, my baby beauty,
  To quicken silence into song
    And glorify the soldier's duty."

  "It's very, very grand, I know,"
    The little maid gave soft replying;
  "And Father, Mother, Brother too,
    All say 'Hurrah' while I am crying;

  "But think--O Mr. Soldier, think,--
    How many little sisters' brothers
  Are going all away to fight
    And may be _killed_, as well as others!"

  "Why, bless thee, child," the Sergeant said,
    His brawny hand her curls caressing,
  "'Tis left for little ones like thee
    To find that War's not all a blessing."

  And "Bless thee!" once again he cried;
    Then cleared his throat and looked indignant,
  And marched away with wrinkled brow
    To stop the struggling tear benignaut.

  And still the ringing shouts went up
    From doorway, thatch, and fields of tillage;
  The pall behind the standard seen
    By one alone of all the village.

  The oak and cedar bend and writhe
    When roars the wind through gap and braken;
  But 'tis the tenderest reed of all
    That trembles first when Earth is shaken.

ROBERT HENRY NEWELL.

